hello friends today in this second
tutorial we are going to see that how to
design a half adder circuit or a full
adder circuit using CMOS VLSI design in
previous tutorial I have already gone
through that to design some basic logic
gates what are the step by step
procedure circuit here in this
particular case we will see that what
are the steps need to be followed in
order to design a half adder circuit so
similarly we have to go step by step
videos if I go with step by step
contingent of the half adder circuit so
far step well we need to understand the
truth table of this particular gate as
it is a half adder circuit if you draw a
half adder circuit we must understand
that this particular block must have
minimum two or more than two inputs data
inputs here it is may be a and B and
similarly the output should be of sum
and carry here if we assume this
particular block then we have to write
down the truth table of a half adder
circuit so what is the half adder
circuit truth table if you write down
the inputs first and output here it is
in sum and carry for two variables
how many combination will come for
combinations so I am writing the four
combinations first yes so for zero zero
sum will be 0 carry 0 for 0 1 someone
carry 0 1 0 someone carry 0 & 4 1 1 what
will happen some will be 0 and carries
one very simple this we have already
gone through in digital electronics what
is new in VLSI design is we have to
check there are certain steps of VLSI
technology by means of which we will
design a pull-up Network
and they pull down Network pull up
network consisting of n was sorry
pull up network will be consisting of
PMO's and pull down network will be
consisting of n verses full of network
must be connected with VDD pull down
Network much we connected with ground
there should be single output and as it
is a CMOS is there to automatically what
is happening automatic inversion is
therefore a CMOS so from the truth table
we must write down the sum first so sum
will be we have to see where the ones is
coming so in case number 2 where a 0 and
B is 1 sum is 1 so a 1 B plus another 1
is when a is 1 that is a and B is low
that is B bar so this is how we can
obtain some and similarly we can obtain
carry also how only one single case when
one is appearing so please find out
which cases when both the a and B both
are high that means a and B no other
options are there where the we will get
another high so this is the value of sum
and carry from the truth table we have
found so the 6 and second step is we
have to take the compliment of it so if
we take the compliment of output that is
some what will happen so why what here
if we apply some it is as Y so Y bar
will be a power B plus a B bar that's
whole bar so now this will be of a bar b
bar plus maybe if we follow the basic
rule and basic postulates of digital
electronics
okay and similarly for Kerry also so let
me first do the some but so here we are
obtaining this expression where a dot B
so end operation so what we can see is
that in end operation the moment we are
discussing we must understand what is
what was there in P most image should be
connected in parallel here so you wrote
it first see I am drawing Toki mas is a
bar and B bar so I don't hear the two
output
sorry input Ava and B bar both are in
parallel C parallel now class operation
class main series connection so plus
here it is and then a and B so a and B
again for P Mo's both should be both
should be parallel a be for this Plus
this line is there so this is the pool
of network which is connected to
infinity fine similarly in pulldown
network also you have to design this
pulldown network also what is that it is
consisting of n Mo's so a while B but so
even if I mean it should be in series so
like this way
he won river and again class is there
that means this line then a dot B a dot
B means N 1 should be end operation N 1
should be in series so we are again
going with a B but both are in parallel
why because this class is there to
automatically put should be in final why
because in pull-up network it was in
series the two product here the two
products should be in parallel satisfied
and from here we will get the sum that
is output so this is not you need to
draw the sum okay some is done then we
will draw the K okay forgetting what we
will do is here as it is carry is a dot
B so we must take the inverted output
what is that if we assume X is a scary
so a dot B bar okay so if we apply here
the same thing a dot B bar that means it
can be drawn as or it can be written as
a 1 plus B bar so again as it is a bar
plus we were that means what will happen
is in pulldown network it should be
parallel pulldown network I am drawing
first here in this particular case so
here Y bar plus D word
money it should be in parallel sorry if
I plus B 1 for pull-up network which was
been series pull up that were consisting
of AP masses and then you connect the
pull-up network to VDD and pulldown
network to ground and from here you can
obtain the inverted carry so this is how
you need to design the sum and carry for
a half adder circuit so if you can show
this thing it is absolutely ok and now
we need to call through that whether all
the cases are performing correctly or
not
so there are 4 cases are there for 2
variables there are 4 combination I will
show you here one single combination
okay so that's one single combination
here we will see that is nothing but say
suppose anyone say surface case to this
one say suppose for some so as here we
are not putting travelers on a 0 and B 1
so if I put here we will put a 0 right
here a 0 sorry by using this pencil I am
going to show see here a 0 and whatever
is there 0 you do this a path to
automatically this is 1 this is 1
similarly B is 1 right so B is 1 and B
part is 0 and 0
so due to bubble here what will appear
here 0 value due to bubble here it is 1
here as it is 0 but due to bubble it is
1 and here you see it is 0 but here all
the things will be appearing same as
they are no bubble is there so what will
happen
zero mix that particularly much off
so this is off state is gone energy
dissolves and also it is off and zero is
off so by this what we can see that as
it is off and this is also off circuit
this is off and this is also off so the
Sun is no way connected to ground no
connection is there between some and
ground but as this is off but this is on
and due to this also this is all so the
some that is the output it may be
connected through this way to maybe that
is the some may be connected to vdd
through this particular finish and this
particular beam was so what is the value
that is VDD is logic high this will
appear here in some so let me see what
is the value is there one can also it is
appearing one so this is how in all
cases you need to make understand that
how all the cases are to be verified
using CMOS VLSI design this is the
concept of a verified logic design of
half adder circuit thank you